thank you for visiting West Coast auto
enthusiasts today we're featuring in
1997 BMW this is an eight forty CI so
not a very common car you'll notice
immediately another car that's typically
seen anymore they were they didn't make
a lot of them and of course there's not
a lot of on the road between they made
these between 1989 and 1999
BMW introduced them as kind of an
upgrade to the six series and they had a
higher performance rating they also you
could get them with a v12 in it this has
actually got a a v8 in it but and they
were quite a bit more than the
substantially as is actually the quote
then the more expensive than a six
series so this is a clean title it's a
clean Carfax car that's locally owned
we've got records in the last couple of
years but a little over sixty eight
hundred dollars in service you can tell
so it's got new rims and tires on it
those were M Sport rims and they've got
staggered wheels those are 235 s on the
front and it's got 265 s on the back and
one of this things you'll notice
immediately about this car this paint is
15 years old and it's in very very good
shape there's no blemishes on the
exterior there's no dents or dings or
scratches a very very clean car no no
scrapes so you've got dual chrome tips
in the back here anyways between 96 and
99 they only brought 800 of these cars
into the United States so that and the
cost keeps is why I don't see more of
them so they didn't make a lot of them
that's a little over 280 290 cars a year
and then do the fact that they're old a
lot of them are collectors or have just
been put away and never driven or
they've just been driven apart so I've
got a six disc changer in the back here
which has got a cartridge in at standard
for BMW you've also got
the standard set of tools here this
actually is a little more extensive due
to the fact that some ink series so
there's more stuff in here than you
typically find I've got a complex buil
caps that which they put in there but
then of course flares and you've got a
lug and there also and all the original
tools which you know to this date I
don't think I've ever opened one of
these sniffs you found a dirty tool in
there they still put them in just in
case you never know when you might need
a pair of pliers so this has got a a
path through system in it you'll see
that little black window there
no Europeans are big on putting to know
it used to be reaction a lot they're
almost exclusively put in the cars and
this is no exception so and then the
original that's the original rim you can
feel the foam is in really good shape
still and you can see the paint back
here in the trunk no rust
super clean not very dirty it's
currently titled and registered in the
state of Oregon the tags are good until
March of 2013 so pretty impressive cars
first performance and handling ghost
there's not really much like them it's
if you're familiar with the six series
back in this generation the 635 CSI and
then the six series kind of a similar
design in the backseat but quite a bit
more expensive I mean it looks more
expensive just sitting here this is the
this year they might have been in your
previous their this is the 4.4 liter v8
as opposed to him they just had a
standard four in here previously so
there's the door trim so power windows
locks and mirrors dual power seats
driver side man we see you can see the
leathers in very good shape
I feel familiar with European cars
that's typical usually the leather where
it's very well in these cars so an
unusual so you've got twin bucket seats
in the back you can see both of these
are in great shape there's a first-aid
kit that's still got the original first
Kate in it and then very similar to a
six series so the bucket seats and then
the center console for people so that's
not too for
well coop of this generation so start
this up and walk you through quickly
real quick and they open the sunroof
here just to show you that it works I'm
gonna get some extra light in here
personal verse to show or sign in the so
wood trim as you can see it's all I'm
very good you've got also so this
is lumbar down here on the driver's side
and you've got lumbar also you can see
the switch down there for passenger
you've got heated seats so you're
familiar with BMWs these are their old
triggers you've got steptronic automatic
transmission of course shiftable
on-the-fly ASC that's a form of traction
control I've got dual auto climate
control this is what it used to look
like so you've got a dial here in Dell
here and then auto for either side and
then air conditioning so here is a they
put in an aftermarket CD player and then
you've got a onboard computer here which
is up here this was a complicated system
for back then so you've got external
temperature you've got some of the
pixels or out here you've got all kinds
you've got gas mileage you've got range
you've got codes you've got distance
your date your clock your programming
over here so this was the start of the
onboard computer and turn the heated
seat off so you've got a power tilt over
here which is still what you're finding
on these things the power tilt
telescoping wheel the air conditioner
blows cold
you've got cruise control over here some
of the work he had done was you've got
new front control arms I've got a new
cat in this thing which is not cheap
process you've got high pressure brake
hoses and lines you'll see one hundred
and twenty two thousand six hundred and
thirty three miles no service indicator
lights your codes are on your lights are
over here on the left and then you've
got driving lights over here on the
right and rear defrost so you've got an
auto dim
here you can see the little sensor up
there in the center and then other than
that power windows and mirror on the
side and close this up just to show you
that everything's operational so cool
car stay like I said they didn't they
hardly imported any of these when you
look at the numbers for BMW 800 over a
three-year period was was a was not a
lot and they were kind of they were hurt
by the the decline in the 90s of stuff
and stop making them in 99 anyways this
is a great example of one of these cars
it's been very well maintained it's got
no leaks on it it's all current on its
service and it's in immaculate condition
if you've got questions or one
additional information please feel free
contact us and we can be reached at 5:03
two two seven two three five four and
thank you for visiting west coast auto
enthusiast